Hi, I'm Sangwhan Moon
from the Technical Architecture Group
also known as the TAG.
And today I will be talking about
how machine learning today will ideally become a part
of the web platform.
To briefly introduce myself as noted earlier
I am an elected member of the TAG,
team leader then E-commerce Oriented Computers Startup,
and finally a PhD student in Natural Language Processing
at the Tokyo Institute of Technology.
I would like to note that the presentation today
carries more weight
from a personal perspective
on the topic rather than the formal group message
from the TAG.
slide-2
Machine learning, namely the sub-field,
which involves using large neural networks
to approximate various functions
through large amounts of training
that have been a hot topic
in the last couple of years.
Due to the social technical impact this has brought
to our lives developers
and users alike expecting this functionality
to become part of the web platform is a natural progression.
Many operating systems have started providing the APIs
that allow you access to these capabilities,
sometimes which wire directly
to a neural network optimized core processor.
slide-3
First and foremost we would like to work
to have a stronger focus on maximizing impact
with smaller incremental changes.
All these topic may still be open for debate,
how we see this is to focus more
on inference rather than try
to tackle training and providing a full blown set
of APIs from the get-go.
The reason for this is
that we see a larger pool of users
on the inference side rather than the training side.
Mainly because having a browser tab open for weeks
doing a training run seems like a less likely scenario.
Eventually we'd like to see more capabilities added
but incremental enhancements allow us as a platform
to adapt to actual user needs
in the world that focus
on fixing easier problems first.
slide-4
One of the complications in defining a mechanism
to run pre-trained neural network models
in the browser is to agree
on the standard format for packaging
and shipping these neural network models.
Machine learning academia
and the ecosystem of frameworks have still not agreed
on a common format
which makes this challenging
for us as a platform,
as we must choose from one
of the multiple competing proposals.
But we do not have a particular preference
on the specific format,
we'd like to see some form
of convergence to make life easier
for the users of the platform.
The same applies for the shader language for computation,
which as we understand has also has yet
to achieve consensus on.
slide-5
Additionally while it is possible
to do a lot of this without a permission as of today,
through capabilities already available
in the platform such as WebGL and WebAssembly,
at the point of standardization as a platform API,
we would like to see this
behind the permission if possible.
The reasons for this is not only due
to the potential privacy implications,
but also due to the power requirements
that these APIs may bring to the table.
This can have negative effects
on the battery life for users who get
out of a single charge.
So we believe that the users should have a choice
to reject if they are in a situation
where they would want
to be conservative about power usage.
slide-6
An extra point that we'd like
to bring to the attention of the group is
to open questions that remain
to integrate these capabilities to the platform.
Due to the current limitations
of JavaScript such as the lack of operator overloading
it makes it challenging
to implement an ergonomic API for vector matrix
or tensor operations on the web platform.
From a user's perspective,
it's a lot more straightforward
to have infix functions than
to chain the pilot function calls.
The last question we have is
whether there is a path forward to converge
with non-browser JavaScript runtimes such as Node.js.
These are points that are open
for further discussion.
slide-7
The TAG has two principles that might be useful
for this group to move the work forward.
We have the base guidelines
which is the Design Principles documents,
which touches on how APIs
for the web should be designed,
but also the ethical web principles,
which we recently released.
As capabilities such as computer vision,
which can be achieved with the work
that is being proposed by this group,
can also have wider social and ethical implications,
we'd like the group to look
into the larger scale social impact
by bringing these capabilities to the web,
to mitigate any potential risks
that it may bring to the end user's privacy.
slide-8
As this is a powerful and complex capability
that we have not previously done
on the web platform,
the TAG would be very interested
in doing early reviews on the topic.
We would be happy to review early proposals
from the contributors of the group,
through our design reviews
repository at github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews
We'd also be more than happy to actively engage
in any cross working group facilitation needed
to make this work happen.
slide-9
Thank you for listening to my presentation.
I'll be available in the live session
for any questions you may have.